My first contact with the Sandberg Institute was in 2011, when I was taken as an intern with Sandberg alumni Pinar Demirdag and Viola Renate. Thought them and their collaborators, I was introduced to a culture of visual writing and critical visual thinking I was unfamiliar at the time, and one that I learnt to appreciate deeply. Our continued collaboration after the internship only reinforced that appreciation.

I occupy a space between research, writing and programming. I am interested in the use of code as a path to understand subjects and to explore ideas which value is not determined by their profitability, that might be hard to justify with a strictly functionalist mindset, proudly fragile things that barely make sense. I seek to establish a practice through dialoguing with the machine, instead of merely using it.

My research interests go from the cesspit of profanity that is 4chan’s /b/ and the cotton candy world of imgur to the ideology critique of Slavoj Žižek and the melancholy science of Theodor Adorno. As far as I am concerned, they are all equally valid, they all collectively help shape contemporary society in their own way and function as reputable sources of reflection of and on our lives.

On the technical side, I am proficient in a few different programming languages, with a special focus on the web. I have worked the past 4 years mainly as a web programmer and use the skills I acquired as the fundamental tool for every project. To that I add my background as a journalist and the soft skills the activity entails, such as editing, writing and researching.

I believe that the Sandberg’s design department offers a privileged position from which to approach these diverse ideas, mediums and corpora. I enjoy the flexibility I see in the work of your students and how the focus is, as you stated previously, less on designing information and more in generating it. My starting point might different and less visual, but somehow it seems to meet up with that perspective halfway through/

I also seek an environment that is open to the frailty of processes whilst being profoundly strict in its criticism of those same processes and their results. A fertile ground for discussion and collaboration that contemplates the fact that every idea is fluid and might melt and self-destruct at a moment’s notice. I believe the Sandberg Institute might be a place that facilitates that.